# Digital_system_design_assign4
Our Lock design was implemented using a Xilinx FPGA on a Diligent nexys-4 board. An additional keypad interface is attached to the board through its Pmod connectors. The keypad added 24 new keys but we only utilized 11. Number 0-9 and the key A. We also utelise a reset button on the board which operates asynchronously.
The lock can be opened by inputting 4 correct digits into a keypad interface. The keys available for input range from 0-9, ten in total. We also utilize the A key on the keypad as a Clear mechanism which will, when pressed forget the digits already input. Useful if the user makes a mistake on input. The design also incorporated a reset button. Small LEDs, near the bottom of the board will light on the board depending on how many digits have been input. For example, if two keys have been input, two small LEDs will be lighting. There is also a coloured status LED on the board. While the 4th digit has yet to be input it will remain solid red. When the fourth digit is input, this acts as an enter key, the small LEDs will turn off and depending on whether the code was inputted correctly or incorrectly the status LED will flash either green or red for 5 seconds. During this 5 second period, all key inputs will be ignored by the board, except reset. If the code is input correctly a signal intended to connect to the mechanical workings of the lock would be high. For the purposes of this design project this signal will be connected to a small led on the opposite side of the board.
After the five second period where the code has been input the lock will revert to its locked status, with a solid red LED and the board will start accepting input for the user to try again. The predetermined code for the design is 5151.
